In this lesson we're going to learn about style binding.
The style binding is a mechanism for dynamically
applying one or more css style definitions to
a particular element. To do so we can use the
v-bind colon style directive
then pass an argument or we can use the shorthand
syntax just colon style then pass in the argument.
The argument here can be an object or an array. First up
let's see how to define css styles in object
and pass it as style binding argument.
Now here we defined the css style as key value
pair where the key is css property and value is
the value of css property.
So here we can specify one or more css properties
as we do in the regular css but one thing
to be noticed here is because generally css property
can consist of one or several words separated
by dash
then we can safely write it in camel case such as
font size like so. Or it can be written in snake case
but it must be enclosed in quotation marks.
So for background color for example we can write in camel case
like this or in snake case background dash color just like
we write in normal css. Let's see an example.
Here we do style bending to my classes then in data
property for example we defined my classes as an
object contains color blue, padding two pixels. When
the page is rendered the div will have style color
blue, padding two pixels.
Next up we can style binding and pass in css style as array.
This usually when we need to apply several style
definitions so maybe we define some groups of style
such as custom style 1, custom style 2 and so on then
from some of these styles we can combine them into
an element by defining them in an array like this.
For example here I have a div and it's style binding to a
and b where a and b defined in data property. a contains
color white then b font size 12 pixels
Here I only to find one css property for every single style.
But in practice we can define more than one css
property. Now a and b will be merged so that when
the page is rendered this div will have style color white font size 12 pixels.
All right
that's all about style bindings. We can dynamically
apply inline css to element by passing css
styles in object or array
if we need to combine several styles.
OK let's see in action.